thank you and thank you for saying I
know that this is the last act all for
today I know that you have been enjoying
the conference so far I know I have my
name is David I work for protocol apps
and in Perko labs we do research
development and deployment of new
technologies well protocols to make the
web better today I want to talk to you
about stellar module management and when
I say module I could really mean like
package I could mean repo
I couldn't mean turbo or even container
essentially those units of logic that
you typically create so you can reuse
yourself or share it with the others the
way that I structured my presentation
I'll just start with motivations and
challenges of making module management
and how to move code around in an
organization and I will reference NPM
the package manager that we know in all
of you know J's community talk about the
web the current state of the web and
ipfs a new IP media transport I will
finish this presentation with something
new and you start in this constellation
something like a bridge between ipfs and
the package management tools that we
have available at our disposal so when
we talk about module management it's
very important to like what actually is
a module and this is typically very
biased by the language that we are using
unless we decide to expose this module
this piece of software through a network
interface or connecting everything
through pipes in a very unique way after
we create this piece of logic we want to
be able to share it and there were other
people to discover
that's when typically a webpage for the
project or a registry come along and we
still have to decide how to transport
these modules and make it reach the
machines that they are going to be used
on we have to deal with updates and
especially security patches and while we
are at it we have to make sure that each
time we push an update we don't break
all these users apps by breaking the
user space structure is also very
important question when we are dealing
with module management because depending
on the structure and how we organize our
modules we can tune it for performance
bandwidth savings
space savings
and speed and how to check what I'm
actually running is what I wanted in the
first place and even like what was but
on the list there is ownership who owns
the module who is allowed to change it
who can where can it be run and what can
we accessible and this is like like a
few but the very like some of the most
important questions that we have to make
when we went to make package manager or
a module management tool if these things
seem very I don't know like some of
these problems seem to have obvious
solutions that's because in a node.js
community we are very spoiled right
we have NPM and NPM was like the panacea
for module management when when NPM
appeared it made some really smart
design realizations that were not
possible 20 or 30 years ago for example
today storage it cheap and bandwidth is
virtually free and in the early days
things like UNIX pipes came along and
one of the reasons why they come along
was because they could not put a big
problem in memory so they created like
small independent programs that they
could connect together today NPM was
able to make the decision of just like
downloading modules several times even
if they have to repeat the same download
and create this dependency tree they're
like solve so many problems of module
management it's true that they there is
a flat dependency tree but like in the
beginning a decision of like downloading
the module over and over again solve all
of the problems and also it's like is
easy to share you can just like with an
NPM publish we can push a module to the
registry it's easy to discover and also
fun we have this nice webpage where we
can look for other people's code and
again as I said there is the its
dependency how free
we never have conflicts between modules
versions and p.m. should really be a
case study for all the other package
managers it's almost even said that
other languages are still fighting with
their module management tools when there
is like NPM already out there that has
proved its concept however and although
endgame is really awesome and p.m. still
lives on the web this neural network
that we grow to rely and depend on
and the system the web that we can
deploy new apps and services granting
users with new capabilities almost like
superpowers is very fragile if we lose
connection to the backbone the service
is gone we cannot use it anymore and
there is several reasons why this is it
this way but most bubble up from one
design decision that was made in the
beginning of the web which was location
addressing location addressing makes the
web very simple we have an address or we
have a name that we can resolve to that
address and this location becomes our
central point of authority for the
document that we are looking for what
this translates in a network is that if
I'm looking for some file I just have to
find the machine it
oh they're responsible for that file and
although it is simple it doesn't
necessarily fulfill all of the use cases
that we can avert our disposal today for
example in this room right if I or
someone here wants to share a package of
mojo with everyone else it has to
publish one p.m. and then everyone else
has to go to an p.m. and fetch this
module the problem is like if what
happens if we lose the connection to NPM
to the backbone it's simply like if the
hotel internet get gets disconnected and
we cannot access this that module
anymore and it's strange right because
like the module is right here in the
same room and like we cannot access it
and we have all these machines at our
disposal with all these resources and
capabilities but we are not using it to
the full extent and there's like several
other problems in the web it's
disconnected scenarios problems with
bandwidth permanence security via the
fact that the web is mostly being kicked
out of IOT and also there is like
problems with control and censorship but
yeah like location address is like one
of the fundamental problems that created
all the other ones and that's where ipfs
comes along ipfs stands for the
interplanetary file system and the name
is an homage to CGC are wider which
designs ideas and work really inspired
their original internet which the names
tended for the intergalactic network you
can really feel like the emission
original project when someone sets up
the goal building the intergalactic
Network and we decided to build the
interplanetary because it wears really
well as well on the idea of like being
the filesystem for the web over IP an IP
FS is a protocol to upgrade the web to
make it work out fine to make it smarter
to make it distributed to make it
permanent to make it safer and
especially faster if we don't make the
web faster it will never see the
adoption that we need to actually create
the impact and ipfs in the end it's just
really a collection of really great
ideas that are available in systems that
we know today like BitTorrent and get
and others from the Academy I guess FS
and each DS and really boiling all these
ideas together and creating a system and
deploying it to the network this is the
ipfs stack and another way to look at it
is we have of course the users using IP
FS and are creating applications and we
have the naming system based on David
Mystery's York with a self-certified
file system and we have the Merkel deck
and the Merkel deck is the core piece of
ipfs the Merkabah
reg enables us to make a distinction
between the links that are immutable and
mutable on the web enabling us to create
better caching policies and moving the
content around the network preemptively
and then we have a Wii peer-to-peer
which is our network stack and now we
connect and discover other peers and
what is the miracle day and like the
first question is like where is this
Merkel name came from Merkel Michael
deck means that we have a graph there
actually directly executes graph and we
have links in that graph and those links
are immutable if for example if I want
to connect those these two pieces of
data and I simply have to ash
the first piece and add this ash to the
second piece and now I have an immutable
link I have always a way to tell which
that I'm pointing at any moment in time
and we call this a Merkel link because
the original idea came from Ralph C
Merkel
with the miracle tree but this
realization we are not the first ones
doing visualization like we have all the
system that we use every day
that use also Merkel linking or Merkel
eyes data structures resemble get is one
of them but get is a miracle tree the
block shine is a marker lies data
structure if use the same strategy and
there is are others right and there's
like this collection of Merkle trees and
these several implementations available
at our disposal by the way whoever said
that like money doesn't grow on trees I
didn't expect for Bitcoin to appear so
ipfs ipfs it's like the Merkel forest
it's a place where all of the miracle
trees can live happily in one cohesive
manner and just to explain and to
illustrate the powerful the power of
Merkel linking let me like just bring
the SV s CB SS V n versus give cats so
remember that would always when we were
shipping code to CBS and sv n if if the
network will went down we could not work
anymore right like we cannot commit code
anymore and then I keep the server but I
went down or was destroyed all of our
work would be simply gone as well and
then I like it appeared and changed
completely the paradigm it basically
said let's put all of the entities that
are participating on these transactions
speaking the same protocol and having
the full implementation what that meant
was that like we can cut the connection
and like it will still work we can like
destroy the servers and the users can
still use other ways to transfer data if
it's my email or USB or like local area
networks doesn't matter it will still
work and we can still improve our
product continues working our projects
and ipfs is basically doing that for the
entire web so again on ipfs organelle in
the merkel bag in ipfs data forms a deck
and again it's called the Miracle Day
because links are cryptographic ashes
and any data structure can be
represented as a deck from UNIX files
and directories get Bitcoin key value
stores and there is even people working
on an SQL database on top of IP FS it's
pretty incredible well how does it
compare to the web that we have today so
we are used to this idea like everything
it oh man
resolving to a location we like the FSU
have a name that resolves to a Content
ash so that we can link to the content
that we are looking for in the first
place so again because we have this
notion that like we are looking for the
resource in some server and ipfs means
that like I'm looking for the content by
the ash so I can like fetch from other
peers that are already done all of this
content or even like make sure that if I
have done all of the content already I
can verify that I have the content in my
local machine by checking the ash and
this is the way that we have at our
disposal to create immutable data and to
move it around in the network very
efficiently but what about new to
building it's true that like we could
use DNS for mutability and just like
apatite the pointers on these domain
records but we want type if has to be
really really fast
so we added one layer in the middle
called IP NS so not only building the
file system for the web but also the
naming system for the web and IP NS
basically is a layer in the middle that
is a mutable pointer and the way that I
create this mutable pointer I just grab
a key a public and private key pair
I get the ash of the public key I create
a record I create a record with the ash
that I want to point to and I sign this
record with my private key and deploy it
to the network so that when other peers
are looking for this ash of the public
key they can not only the unload the
record from the network but also
validate the signature and have the same
kind of trust that you would put on a
central point of authority so yeah so we
know how to do immutable files you know
how to construct like directories and
files inside ipfs through the miracle
bag we have we have mutable pointers how
can we find all of these files all of
this data on the network itself and the
secret is the HTS distributed hash
tables these are like the holy grail of
peer-to-peer networks and the way that I
teach these work and I just like want to
give a katene overview it's like you
give each node like HP here on a network
an ID
and you have like this one dimension of
ideas and each time you want to set up a
file to the network you just simply ash
the file get its ID and put some
pointers like sprinkle some pointers on
those nodes that have an ID closer to
the idea of my file so then when someone
goes after that file it will contact the
nodes that are again close to that ID
and see the pointers and see where the
node the file is located okay so this
was a very quick overview we definitely
can go more in depth after the talk but
what you guys will ipfs you get
discovery to IP NS you get integrity
through cryptographic hashing you get
activity because in peer-to-peer
networks you have the universe scaling
problem the more people downloading the
file the more people you have serving so
the more than all of the merrier
you have structure because you just have
to download things once like since you
can validate the contact you have
available through their ashes you have
the transport where you can extreme from
several peers at the same time you can
empathize just by syncing the changes
and you have the idea of ownership
because like IP NS record addresses are
signed by private keys and these are
this like this list of features is very
similar basically matches all of the
needs for package management so just a
chronometer preface what we use this and
apply to an PM what we could could we
get from system like this if we use it
as a transport for moving our npm
modules around and for that I have a
demo to show you so just like with me
you were my disclaim all right everyone
can see this yeah
so the first thing I have to do is I
start the ipfs demon so actually I have
to need it first I wanted to start from
scratch I have to start my PFS demon so
that I'm part of the network okay and
then we've created this module called
registry mirror and I'm going to tell -
registry mirror that I want a proxy like
I want to simulate NPM API locally and
when someone requests the module to use
ipfs to download that module for me I'm
just going to select the port again if I
- file just for convenience okay I have
to say that I want to run this as a
daemon that's true okay so now that
registry mirror is going is running what
if he's doing is like fetching from the
a BFS Network the latest state of the
registry seems I'm having some network
problems okay but I was prepared I
recorded a video just make sure that I
so yeah I can like show the demo after
as I don't know what I tested it's doing
the ones right so as I was showing we
need the demon
we run ipfs demon and we we start the
demon we connect to the network we start
this registry mirror thing we say that
we want to use ipfs start on a port it
connects the network fetches the list
like the latest state of NPM so like the
list of ashes that correct form to all
of the module versions of the modules
and all its versions and then I said
that I want to install a module using
this local registry this local proxy
and it didn't stall so like we are
installing modules from from NPM from
NPM by having is this bridge through
ipfs but the really cool part like we
always like I've installed modules from
NPM right so the really cool part is
like when I get into a disconnected
environment what if I want to work in a
plane a train in a scenario the network
is very low bandwidth and I don't have a
very good connection to the backbone so
that's the beauty of ifs and just like
showing you here I have like so this is
a VM I just changed to the VM that's
using another like at the Internet
interface and another wireless car and I
was connecting to the same router here
so that I could select two separate
machines do the same process and then I
was just like start this pink wait no no
oh my god okay so I just want to play
well so I I just started the ping to
show that I was connected and now what
I'm going to do is like something that
you never want to do right shutting off
the internet oh my god
where is the data and now why do you
think you will happen and ideas any bets
I'm going to try to install the same
wall do that the other machine that some
the same local area network is and I'll
say drumroll and it went install so what
happened here is we managed to find yeah
so I feel like both ipfs demons found
each other in the local area network and
just announced to each other oh I have
the module that you're looking for just
fetch it from me this has like huge
amounts of like saving bandwidth on the
network so so yeah this was my demo okay
continuing putting my talk so right now
we can have this peer-to-peer
distributed
the registry continues to be the
registry and we continue to have this
point that we can trust to fetch our
modules and to discover the modules but
we can now not only unload it from the
the NPM data servers but we can also
like fetch it from ours friends
computers our neighbors computers like
everyone anyone else that has the module
available on their machine and substance
and 13 2013 2 years ago was proposing
this idea at LX s and now it's finally
possible like we find out we can do it
we can finally have a distributed NPM
and make sure that like not only we can
use it to make our operations faster but
we can like bring this technology to
countries that I have lower bandwidth
and more disconnected scenarios and
enabling them to use the modules that we
are providing NPM I think that it's
pretty awesome right no like mandatory
cool so I actually don't know my time
actually I'm over time so yeah thank you
for your attention and for being here